# Estimation methods for a time-varying extremal index

This repo contains the methods used in my thesis, Estimation approaches for a time-varying extremal
index. which was submitted to obtain the degree of MSc in Econometrics and Data Science at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. 
The extremal index index 
The thesis proposes two methods for the estimation of a time-varying extremal index: a non-parametric and parametric modelling approach.
We then compare the performance of these estimation approaches in a simulation study. To this end, we estimate the extremal index on data
generated by models and calculate the mean squared error. 

# Structure
The repo contains the following files:
* Thesis Arne Platteau v2.0.pdf : pdf file of the paper, which treats the methods used from a theoretical perspective, and provides the background
to the methods used.
* methods_extremal_index.py : file which contains the implementation of all the estimators for the extremal index used in the study. 
* methods_simulation.py : file which contains the helper classes and functions for the simulation study. 
* analysis_ARtstable.py : file which contains a simulation study for one model : an AR(1) model with fixed autoregressive coefficient and student-t distributed error terms. 

# Future developments of the package
* Add another simulation study.
* Add an empirical application.

 - - - -

Copyright (c) 2021 Arne Platteau

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
